>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Okay, making
HTTP requests another common thing that we
will do, we already kind of did,
actually, we not already kind of did,
we actually did, inside of our code here.
We nude up an HTTP client, and
then we called GetStringAsync.
There's a few other methods that
you'll need to know to use HTTP client
effectively because it's not
just made up of GetStringAsync,
there's actually a ton on HTTP client.
First, it's important to mention that
HTTP client is async all the way down.
I know I mentioned that already,
but it's a good reminder.
So the methods that call them
should be declared async as well,
all the way down as if you can.
And so it's really just exists to
be a high-level abstraction for
making HTTP requests and processing
HTTP responses for those requests.
So one construct, one such construct
that we will see a lot of in
the ASP.NET course is
the HTTP request message.
So this is the thing that
contains all your HTTP headers.
Who made the request?
Or where did the request come from, right?
What resource are you trying to access?
What host are you trying to get to?
What headers are on this request?
What is the body of the request?
That all comes from
the HTTP request message.
So when we're using HTTP
client to make those requests,
this is typically what it looks like.
We would typically go HTTP
request message, it say,
here's the HTTP verb I'd like to use and
the website that I'd like to download.
I'll new up my HTTP client, and
then I'll call send async to
allow me to send this raw
HTTP request message.
There are some other things.
There are other some other methods that
kind of make that a little easier.
You don't have to use send async,
you can use for
ret = await client.GetAsync.
You can use GetAsync here to
actually go and get it, and
that will automatically create an HTTP
request message with the right URL in it.
And you can see that all the way down to
as you navigate through the source code,
you can see that's the case.
Again, it won't let me navigate any
further than that wooden rider, though.
Okay, if you have a let's say
that your connect your comment,
you're interacting with a common API or
some other service.
Maybe it's Azure, or
maybe it's something like SendGrid.
You may have a situation where you
need to add a request header to every
request typically for authentication.
So you might have something like this
where you need to pass in order to make
this service call,
you may need to say, hey.
I need you to send this API key, or
this header with every single
one of these requests.
So you can do that by an HTTP client just
calling default request headers.add so
you can see that here,
default request header.
So this would be basically that any
call GetAsync, PutAsync, PostAsync,
any of those verbs that are made,
any of those requests that are made,
will automatically throw that
header onto that request.
Correspondingly, if you need to authorize
using the authorization header,
that's easy to do.
The authorization of the default request
headers has an authorization header
object available to it, and
this is how you would set it.
You'll see lots of times when you're
talking to other APIs that you're using
bearer tokens.
So you might say new authentication
header value, and then you would give
it the bearer, which is known as
the scheme, and then the actual token that
will be sent to the client, that will
be sent to the server, excuse me.
So we've already kind of
talked about GetAsync, but
there's a couple of things
once you do GetAsync.
So, when we got GetStringAsync,
obviously that just downloaded a string,
but the type for
GetAsync is all different.
It's actually quite a bit different.
So, the type for GetAsync, you'll see.
We hover over it is
an HTTP response message.
So HTTP response message is
the abstraction that represents all
of the things that came
back in that HTTP response.
What are the headers that
came back in that response?
What's the body of that request?
And oftentimes when you're
interacting with these APIs,
you'll say something like I want
the content of the request and
you'll say await client or
sorry response.client or content.
And then you'll see a couple of things.
You'll see the content is HTTP
content is of type HTTP content.
And you can read it as a stream.
So you can read it as
a stream of bytes back.
You can read it as JSON.
So if you're getting a JSON blob from
that API, you can read it back and
put it into a .NET object, which I'll show
examples of that in the ASP.NET course.
You can also just read it as a string,
which is functionally equivalent to what
we did before when we
called GetStringAsync.
So that's taking the body of the request.
Quest, and just just taking that,
reading that content and
putting it into a string into memory.
So functionally,
the same as GetStringAsync.
And then, of course, when you need
to make mutations to target systems,
you make good you can use HTTP
client to make put or POST requests.
Which would be to say that if you wanted
to add in a blog post via an API or
something, you might create a JSON
blob with that content in it,
and then post that off
to the target server.
We already mentioned,
read from JSON very useful, like I said,
for receiving JSON blobs back read
as string or ReadAsSreamAsync.
I have used this recently a lot for
getting files back from an API.
It'll probably be something it would
be something like blob storage, and
these are audio and video files.
These are media files.
So I want to make sure that I'm being
respectful of the resources the server
that I'm at.
So I'll take that stream.
I'll take that stream, I'll open it up,
and then I'll literally
send it off to another caller to send
them that file inside of a stream.
So I'm not taking up 200, 500MB of memory.
That would just be terrible practice.
A couple of other things on
response IsSuccess status code,
so all HTTP requests respond with a or
a the response contains
what's called a StatusCode.
200 level status codes
are considered good,
considered our mission was a success.
300 is typically some kind of redirect.
400 as you get into error territory.
500 is bad error territory.
Well not typically,
anything that's in the 200 to 299 response
code range is considered a good thing.
And this would be considered
IsSuccess status code two true.
There's a lot of times that I use this
if I know that an API may be flaky or
I need to make sure to log to make sure
that this API call succeeded or not.
I'll use IsSuccess status
code to log that or
make sure that I checked status
code to make sure that it
was successful before I do some kind
of processing on that response.
EnsureSuccessStatusCode is a method
that will throw an exception if the re
ResponseStatusCode is
not indicate success.
I almost never use this, simply because
I think that in many cases, in this
one included, there's just cleaner ways
to handle the error state from an API.
And throwing exceptions,
I can usually handle it more gracefully.
Somebody earlier masked about resource
exhaustion if you create one HTTP client
per request.
Yeah, you can absolutely
exhaust system resources.
So you don't do that.
So typically,
in most in an ASP.NET Core context,
you're gonna use an abstraction called
IHttpClientFactory to create them for you.
And it manages all the goodness under the
hood to make sure you don't exhaust system
resources.
Other than that, you will typically
take one shared HTTP static or
HTTP client that's static, and
you will share it across your entire
application and
you just will never dispose of it.
Which is important to say, because while
I said that disposing is important,
there are some things you do not want to
dispose HTTPClient tends to be one of
those things.
Now, if you do dispose of an HTTPClient
created from HTTPClient factory,
I don't think it matters that much.
But other than that, you don't want to
HTTPClient is one of those resources that
implements I disposable,
that you'd actually most of the time
do not want to dispose 99% of the time.